Greetings ASI. Glad to be with you. Glad that you are here today. We're going to be talking about the importance of lay ministries and the history of ASI. How many here by show of hands are currently serving at a supporting ministry? Could you raise your hands? Amen. Amen. Glad glad to see that. How many have been a part of ASI for 20, let's say 20 plus years? Amen. Praise the Lord for your commitment. Oh, and lastly, how many are new to ASI? Could I see a hands up? Who's new to ASI? All right. Wonderful. Glad that you

are here and glad that we are together. I hope to g that we can gain some inspiration from the Lord as we seek to understand better how the Lord has led in our past history. Our title today is investing in lay ministry. the ASI sto story. Would you please bow your heads with me? Father, we welcome your presence now. We pray that you would inspire us of from our history and from where we are today and what you want to do with your church. We're thankful for ASI and we're glad to be here gathered together.

We pray that your Holy Spirit would be with us in Jesus' name. Amen. There's no doubt that lay ministries have a tremendous impact on God's church today around the world. As Steve mentioned in his introduction, they're especially meaningful to me because if it wasn't for lay ministries, I would not have met the Seventh Day Adventists. I was introduced to the message through supporting ministries. I was studied with and baptized while volunteering at a supporting ministry. I was then given

mission training at a supporting ministry. and have now served over 25 years in the supporting ministries. Over these years, I've had the privilege to visit over 60 countries and have seen firsthand the impact of supporting ministries in people's lives and in the 7th Adventist Church today. In my work, I'm often questioned, what is ASI? Not in this room, but around the world. What is ASI? Why do supporting ministries exist? What's their role? Do they work independent from the church? Are they

necessary for the success of the church today? And are they worth investing in with our time, our energy, and our resources? These are important questions for us to explore. And maybe the best way to answer them is to look at the origins of ASI and to see how all this got started. ASI sorry, history is important for us to understand. And I just want to share a quote here from American author Robert Heinline, which once wrote, "A generation that ignores history has no past and no future." When we understand

our history, we know how we got here and where we need to go. So, let's take a look. the very first supporting ministry of the church. The ministry that laid the foundation for what ultimately developed into ASI. The ministry that set a powerful example for hundreds of supporting ministries around the world today was indeed Madison College. Madison was established by the Lord's direction in the year 1904. So let's set the context a little and see what was going on in the church at that time. The church was making steady

progress in sending the message around the world. 67 countries had already been entered by that time. Due to this growth and to make room for the work to grow even more successfully, the church needed a reorganization to empower its leadership that were serving around the world. Council was given from the Lord stressing this importance. The matter in regard to centralizing all the power in one body has become serious. From the light given me, I see that this administration is embracing altogether too much and is trying to

carry burdens and interests which it has not strength or wisdom from heaven to bear or to conduct successfully. The Lord is just as willing to impart wisdom and ability to men in distant fields as he is to impart wisdom and ability to the men in Battle Creek. And again, there must be a reorganization. Let there be fewer responsibilities centered in one place. There was no time to delay for God's church. It was not time to think small. The work needed space for rapid expansion. It was not practical or

efficient for the leaders at the general conference to be making decisions for the work all over the world. In response to that council in the 1901 and 1903 General Conference sessions, the 7th Adventist Church underwent a dramatic reorganization to ensure that it could reach out to all the world. So why am I bringing up GC governance in a talk about ASI and supporting ministries? Well, this was a very significant event that happened in the church in the years just prior to the beginning of Madison. And I believe it's

also a part of a bigger picture where God seemed to be raising the urgency of truly finishing the work Christ had given to us. While we can be thankful for the growth that was happening at that time, it was obviously below our Lord's expectations. In 1904, church membership was about 82,000, but the world's population was 1.7 billion. 7th Day Adventists represented 0.0. 05 of the world's population. The church was in need of a bigger vision and framework for expansion and GC President AG. Daniels was up for the

task. The church at that time needed a restructure not only for current operations but to make room for future growth. Yet the engine for that growth was not to be reliant upon our ministers but the lay members. Let me repeat that. The engine for that growth was not to be reliant upon the ministers but upon the lay members who for the most part seemed half asleep and wrapped up in their own lives. The following message was given to the church at this time. Had the purpose of God been carried out by his

people in giving to the world the message of mercy, Christ would heir this have come to the earth and the saints would have received their welcome into the city of God. Christ was delaying his return because we were not willing to take up the work wholeheartedly. So there was council given at that time to wake up and arouse the lay members into action. The need was for total member involvement. The mentality that the work should be left to the ministers was evil and a threat to the success of our mission. Christ was given Christ has

given our church an urgent prophetic message from Revelation chapter 14 to share with every person in the world. Ours was not to be a denomination of those who sat warming their pews. We are called to a higher purpose. We are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood of believers with a commission to surrender our lives to Christ and to be used by him in spreading the gospel to the world. Mission service was seen from the beginning not as optional to our membership but core to our identity and we needed a heavy reminder of that at

this at that time. from testimonies volume 8. There is a much greater work devolving upon the individual members of the church than they realize. Many of the members of our large churches are doing comparatively nothing. They might accomplish a good work if instead of crowding together, they would scatter into places that have not yet been entered by the truth. Not one in a hundred among us is doing anything beyond engaging in common worldly enterprises. We are not half awake to the worth of souls for whom

Christ has died. It is not the ordained ministers upon whom we must depend for this work. Speaking of the work of reaching the unreached, but lay men who love and fear God and who feel the burden for the salvation of souls. It is not the Lord's plan. And it and the church treasury does not have the finances to pay the expenses of every lay person that feels called to work for God. I'm sure our GC treasurer Paul Douglas would agree with that. Glad he's in attendance here at ASI. There is a lack from the testimonies.

There is a lack of money in the treasury. And if none shall engage in the work but men who are paid wages, what will become of the multitudes that are in darkness? If the lay members of the church will arouse to do their work in a quiet way, going to war at their own charges, each seeing how much he can do in winning souls to Jesus, we shall see many leaving the ranks of Satan to stand under the banner of Christ. The church needs to be imbued with the missionary spirit. Then there will be many to work

unselfishly in various ways that they can notice without being salaried. And by the way, let me add here that when lay members get active in God's work, lay ministries start popping up all over. Praise the Lord. We have seen a tremendous spike in lay ministries in recent years. The Lord is moving on people's hearts. Lay activity will always result in lay ministries. Lay activity will always result in lay ministries. In addition to the church reorganization and the call for lay members to get more

engaged in God's work, there was a there was also a message given to our people to stop centralizing in one or just a few places but to spread ourselves to reach the unreached. At the time, Battle Creek was so concentrated with Adventist, it became unhealthy. As a result, under the Lord's direction, the college was moved out of out of Battle Creek to a farm property in Berian Springs. Additionally, the staff needed to run the sanitarium and the review and Herald Publishing contributed to the concentration in Battle Creek. It

was not the Lord's design for there to be just one main major sanitarium. The publishing work had also become too centralized. On top of this, there were significant in uh issues in these institutions and in 1902 both institutions were burned to the ground. Yet the Lord had a purpose in allowing it. The Lord permitted the fire to consern to consume the principal buildings of the Review and Herald and the sanitarium and thus removed the greatest objection urged against moving out of Battle Creek.

The Lord was serious about this issue of centralization. Now, I know we love each other very much and we want to be close to each other. I know we love each other's company. It's a blessing. But we can't go all we can't go into all the world to preach the gospel by congregating ourselves in Adventist centers. Too much salt in one place ruins the dish. The context of the time leading up to 1904 would seem to indicate to us that God was trying to set plans and action to finish the work of God. It seems he

was trying to give us a broader vision. Things needed to o to open up in God's church. He was he was telling us that he could direct those leaders laboring abroad. He could direct those in Europe. He could direct those in South America, Africa, and Asia. He can direct those given to the medical missionary work. There needed to be thousands of medical missionary centers around the world, not just one major one or a few. That God could direct those in the publishing work. Many publishing houses were needed

globally. That he could direct lay members willing to move by faith into new territories to reach the unreached at their own expense. and he can do all of this and yet keep us connected, uni, united, organized as a body. Sadly, most did not learn the lesson even after the fires in Battle Creek. Ellen White reproved the fact that some from Battle Creek would move eastward to congregate together near the new GC headquarters in Tacoma Park, Maryland, while others moved west to to congregate together in

Mountain View, California, where Pacific Press had just been relocated. But I assure you, there was one place almost nobody wanted to go. The South. The South was reeling from the effects of civil war and adjusting to the end of slavery. The economy was weak and the land often depleted. On top of that, there was deep prejudice against northerners, which were most of our members members of the church. Yankees weren't just seen as outsiders. They were often seen as intruders to the south. Such were the challenges and the

setting that gave rise to the first self-supporting project there in Madison, Tennessee in 1904. The leaders of this new ministry were EA Sutherland and Percy Mcan, two young pioneers in Adventist education, who had a vision to start a school to train lay members for missionary work in the south, which was largely unreached, and around the world. Let's look at some of the background of EA Southerntherland, Madison's first president. Edward was born to Joseph and Mary Sutherland in Praireen, Wisconsin

in 1865, just south of where I was born and raised. Joseph and Mary were new converts to the Adventist faith and while pregnant with Edward decided to move to start a farm of their own in northern Iowa. Young Edward made a dramatic entrance into the world on a cold, frosty March 3rd morning while on their journey. They had hoped to reach their destination before Mary went into labor. Why they would choose to travel when she was 9 months pregnant, I'm not sure. However, soon into their journey, the

contractions started. As the young couple attempted to cross the Mississippi by ferry, they were not halfway across the Mississippi when young Edward was born. Picture it. Joseph and Mary traveling while pregnant, not finding a suitable place to deliver their baby. Edward was not born in a manger, but not far from it. Truly, Jesus is touched with the feelings of our infirmities. While growing up, Edward learned the value of hard work through life on the farm. When he was old enough, his dad let him herd cattle for a penny a day.

By summer's end, Edward had saved 35 cents, roughly $10 today. Following his father's advice, he saved his money and invested in onion sets in the spring. After diligently tending to the onions and harvesting them in the fall, Edward made a substantial profit from his first business venture. After graduating high school, Edward went coal portering in Minneapolis for the summer. There he learned about Battle Creek College and through much sacrifice and resistance from his father, he was finally able to

enroll there as a student. In 1888, as Edward began his junior year, he befriended a new arrival at the college named Percy Mcan from Ireland. Percy lived several months in the home of Ellen White, giving him and Edward the opportunity to be influenced by the woman they affectionately called Mother White. Upon Edward's graduation from Battle Creek, he took employment as a teacher for the church. The summer of 1891 marked a profound transformation for EA Sutherland. While he attended a teachers convention organized by the

general conference president, there he experienced a deeper walk with God by embracing the message of righteousness by faith. He more clearly understood the role of the spirit of prophecy in his personal life. Correspondingly, he accepted the health message, adopted the vegetarian diet, and felt a strong calling to dedicate his life to Christian education. Sutherland was then called back to Battle Creek College to teach Old Testament. Without a set curriculum, he opened his Bible and began to teach from

the book of Genesis, highlighting that the original diet was indeed vegetarian. His compelling arguments struck a chord with his students, leading 50 out of 80 of them to want to become vegetarian themselves. This sparked a controversy on the campus where the where the cafeteria served meat regularly. As the debate intensified, conviction spread and 150 students signed a petition requesting vegetarian meals in the dining hall. Dr. John Harvey Kellogg, the medical director of the nearby Battle Creek Sanitarium, heard about the

movement and supported the petition, having long championed the vegetarian diet. However, not all were happy. Uriah Smith and WW Prescott and the rest of the college board opposed the movement. Yet, to resolve the controversy, the college administration agreed to add beans to the menu. So, there you have it. Thanks to EA Sutherland's initiative, beans became a staple at Battle Creek College, paving the way for many hay stacks to be served at Adventist schools for years to come. Thank you, Dr. Sutherland.

Impressed with Sutherland's potential as a leader, General Conference President Olsen called Edward to spearhead a new college opening in Walaw Wala, Washington. Uriah Smith and WW Prescott did not oppose. In 1892, Walaw Wala's doors were opened with 91 students. Enrollment surged to 160 by the end of the first year. Edward was very intentional to follow the council from the Spirit of Prophecy in developing this new school. He introduced agriculture as part of the curriculum, emphasizing manual labor for

character development. He also improved academic standards, balancing practical education with rigorous instruction. Sutherland emphasized spiritual development, integrating religious instruction into the curriculum, and encouraging missionary activities. His leadership style was hands-on, working alongside students and participating in daily activities. After five years, by 1897, Sutherland had established Walaw Wala College as a model of Adventist education. His success caught the attention of Adventist leaders at

the general conference session of that year, leading to his, and by the way, this picture is from a few years later, but it was the best one to show. You know, a lot of the same people involved at the general conference of 1897. They called Elder Sutherland to return to Battle Creek College, this time as president with Percy Mcan joining him as academic dean. Implementing the model of education that he had set at Walaw Wala proved difficult as Battle Creek sat on just a few acres in the middle of town

with no connecting farm or industries. Sutherland dreamed of moving the college to a rural area, but that idea did not gain much traction. That is until 1901 when Ellen White attended the general conference session. There she appealed for the college to be sold and recall to the country. By God's providence, the church did just that. Sutherland and man worked hard with her team to relocate the college on a large farm property in Berian Springs, Michigan. Conditions were primitive at the beginning and the

work was hard. But soon the college reopened its new location, dawning the new name Emmanuel Missionary College or EMC, today's Andrews University. Here, Southerntherland could implement the right model of Adventist education. Students worked on the farm, milked the cows, built the living quarters, and student buildings, all while maintaining their Bible and academic studies. Next is a picture from EMC from 1932. After some 30 years of development, you can imagine how it looked at the beginning.

Some parents questioned why their children were having to work so hard with their hands when they had be sent. They had been sent to gain a higher education. There was a lack of understanding and vision regarding these new educational principles. Things were getting tense. Pressure was mounting on the two young leaders. Additionally, Southerntherland's proposal to build a small sanitarium adjacent to the college was not approved. There was little interest in launching another sanitarium given the growing tensions with Dr.

Kellogg and the situation unfolding in Battle Creek. This came as a great disappointment to Sutherland and following a difficult board meeting, both he and Percy Mcan tendered their resignations. After these experiences, both men believed that God was calling them to serve in the southern field. They wanted to go where few were willing to go. They resolved not to wait for a call or financial support from the church. They would go forward in faith in a self-supporting way as an example for other lay members.

This was a method they knew was needed to finish the work. At the time, the Southern Union was the smallest union in the United States with a church membership of roughly 2800. Their good friend Edson White, son of of Ellen White, had a missionary boat called the Morning Star and agreed to take Percy and Edward down south to find a country property for a school. Mother White insisted in joining the boys for their journey and was directed providentially via means of a boat breakdown to a farm property just

outside Nashville, Tennessee. Mother White related to Edward that this was the property she had seen and visioned. Edward and Percy were both heartbroken because they had never seen a far worst looking farm in all of their lives. Surrendering to Providence was not easy, but Edward and Percy determined to follow the Lord's direction. Edward visited the homeowner to negotiate the sale. However, she ran him off, yelling that she would never sell her property to a Yankee. Maybe a bit relieved that maybe the Lord

was leading in a different direction, he informed Ellen White of the owner's refusal to sell. But Sister White was not to be deterred. She approached the woman herself and after several visits was finally able to secure the purchase. Ellen White then instructed that documents be written up establishing a nonprofit organization as the owner of the property. She offered to sit on the board herself, making it the only board she sat on her whole life. She also recruited Essen Haskell from the General

Conference and George Butler, former GC president and current Southern Union president to also sit on the board with her. Here is a picture of some of the founders of Madison College. Ellen White and her sons in the front row with EA Sutherland, Percy Mcan and Edwards onto the middle uh Nelly Drillard. Uh she was a wealthy woman that helped finance Madison in the early days. You can kind of tell by that picture, she was kind of the leader in a in a way. She was a strong woman. The organizational model suggested by

Ellen White was unique in the church at the time and not well understood. In addressing that issue with the general conference president AG Daniels, she wrote in the matter of the Madison school, there has been a standing off from them because they were not under the direct ownership and control of a conference. There are some enterprises under certain conditions that will produce better results if standing alone. What are some of the advantages of following a self-supporting or supporting ministry model? Let's look at

them. Well, it allows for a smaller governance structure of specialized individuals so that ministry boards are comprised with people of expertise and passion for that work. Also, decisions are made more efficiently through simpler, streamlined processes. Their work also brings no financial liability to the church while they go on serving the church and bringing in baptized members. They're on their own with their finances. And lastly, this structure brings no legal liability to the church. It brings protection to the

church. Through the efforts of Ellen White, the structure and work at Madison were understood and accepted by church leaders at the general conference. In 1908, President Daniels sent a financial contribution to help support the work at Madison. And the following year, 1909, in GC session, it was voted to encourage conferences to send lay persons to Madison for training. The beginnings of Madison in 1904 now were not easy. This is a picture of the only home on the property. It served as the school, the staff housing, the

cafeteria, the office, and the laundry. The barn and the carriage house served as the early dormatory. After they cleaned out all the animals, they still had to contend with the mice, flies, bats, snakes, and other vermin. If you could survive what they affectionately called probation hall, you could survive anything Madison had to offer. Eventually, the school and farm got on their feet and lay members from around the United States came for training. Due to following God's council, Sutherland

and man established a very effective training for mission service. Additionally, Sutherland's dream of having a sanitarium was fulfilled. In describing the school at Madison, Ellen White wrote, "The school at Madison not only educates in a knowledge of scriptures, but it gives a practical training that fits the student to go forth as a self-supporting missionary to the field to which he is called. In his student days, he is taught how to build substant uh simply and substantially how to cultivate the land and care for the

injured. This training for medical missionary work is one of the grandest objects for which any school can be established." She continued by saying, "If many more in other schools received a similar training, we as a people would become a spectacle to the world, to angels, and to men." This message, notice, would quickly be carried to where? Every country and souls now in darkness would be brought to the light. These men are under the special light the Lord has given. They are not to be hindered in

any way, for the Lord is leading them. Madison was a place where teachers and medical missionaries were trained along with practical skills to carry the gospel to the world without being a financial burden to the church. It was an example missionary center that needed to be replicated so that lay members around the world could also gain the blessing. Madison's approach to education was built on three key pillars which helped provide well-rounded graduates in agriculture and industry, education and

Bible and the medical missionary training. In these early days, Madison would only accept students that made a commitment to serve in mission work following their training. It was not easy to be a student at Madison. That is why it produced such strong graduates. They were ready to meet the challenges of the mission field. In 1909, after just five years, over 20 related schools were opened by Madison graduates serving a total of around 700 students. In a Madison report in 1912, graduates had opened a total of 28 schools with

nearly 1,000 students. In addition to the rural schools for children, by 1912, there were 12 new mission projects established by Madison graduates, operating medical missionary centers, agricultural projects, evangelism, and mission training. In fact, two young men that graduated from Madison were some of the very first missionaries to Cuba where they established a farm, trained the community, and opened a church in 1909. 1909 marked the very first self-supporting convention at Madison's property. Alumni gathered from their

projects to share reports of God's blessings to gain and give inspiration. In a way, we might see this as the first ASI. In 1915, the missionary course at Madison grew from 1 to two years. And by 1920, Madison offered two-year courses in nursing, education, agriculture, and home economics. Madison's industries provided work and training for the students, income for the ministry, and a means of independence and self-reliance. Here's a picture of Madison graduates harvesting beans. The farm grew to be

one of the most successful in all of Tennessee with a lead farmer giving lectures for the government and local farmers in Tennessee. The sanitarium was another important industry, training ground, and income producer for Madison. Both EA Sutherland and Percy Mcan studied in Nashville to become licensed physicians so they could give proper leadership to the medical work. Here's a picture of some of the medical missionary students in the early days of Madison. Percy man would then get called away to

Southern California to help lead a new medical evangelism school called Linda. In addition to the farm and sanitarium, Madison also did their own publishing and printing. They also had a restaurant in Nashville. In addition to that, that was their center of influence in Nashville. They also had a health food industry. I don't know if you can see in the picture some of their products. Nutmeat, soy cheese, and laxative fruit sticks. Sounds interesting. Madison also did a lot of carpentry and other industrial work to provide for the

needs of the campus and by selling brooms, furniture, and other items that helped bring finances for the school. Dr. Sutherland believed in a balanced education where the hand and the mind work together. Industries were not merely financial tools. They were part of the mission to develop the character and train well-rounded gospel medical missionaries. The Great Depression lasting from 1929 to 1939 turned the world upside down. But life at Madison had hardly changed. Yes, their outside business was affected

and stipens were reduced during those years, but they did not at all go hungry, as were many Americans. At the peak of the depression in 1931, the Madison farm was in full swing, preserving that year 3,000 gallons of peaches. 1,000 gallons of spring spring beans, 200 gallons of beets, 400 gallons of greens, 2200 gallons of grapes, and several hundred gallons of tomatoes. Of course, this is all in addition to what the campus consumed fresh. In 1939, a major turn of events occurred in Madison when an article was written in

the Reader Digest about the self-supporting college in Madison, Tennessee. Readers Digest was the nation's leading periodical at the time, thus bringing Madison into the national spotlight. The world was amazed that the college kept training young people throughout the depression and they could work with their hands to pay their way through school. This resulted in Eleanor Roosevelt, the wife of the United States president, who also wrote an article about Madison. The US Department of Interior did a

study and wrote up a paper on the Madison as well. And lastly, Rip's Believe It or Not wrote an article. Believe it or not, the first self-supporting college. As a result of all this publicity, over 5,000 student applications poured into Madison from around the United States. They maxed out their capacity at 450 students on campus. The impact of Madison reached far and wide. Truly, it was a spectacle to the world, to angels, and to men. By 1942, at the start of World War II, there were now 47

supporting ministries in the South, all of which had been impacted by Madison. These ministries were healing thousands of people, educating thousands of people, thus laying a strong foundation for the growth of the church in the Southern Union. By the end of World War II, Sutherland was called to meet with General Conference leadership to discuss the impact and relationship of supporting ministries with the organized church. He was then appointed as secretary for the newly formed North American Commission

of Self-supporting Workers. The church also took heightened interest in the Country Living message after losing the lives of many Adventists in Europe that were living in the cities during World War II. Dr. Sutherland was added to the Country Living Board of Counselors along with President NC Wilson and Elder CB Haynes. Their work resulted in publishing a compilation with the White Estate entitled Country Living, the one still available to us today. Sutherland was then added to the general uh by the

General Conference to the Commission on Rural Living in 1946. He was seen in as as an expert in the topic. And who knew country living better than those at Madison and its affiliates? This commission on rural living was given two primary tasks. Number one, to educate our church members in the country living message and give counsel to church members wishing to move to the country. But notice number two, the number two objective for the Commission on Rural Living was to establish ASI, the Association of SDA Self-Supporting

Institutions. In 1947, that commission organized a meeting in Cincinnati, Ohio, with the leaders of Madison and many other self-supporting institutions across the country to officially form ASI. The chairman of that meeting was President NC Wilson with EA Sutherland serving as secretary. Sutherland there there became the first president of ASI. Elder CB Haynes from the general conference called it quote a great day in the history of the church. I think you would agree with him on that statement. Here

is a short list now of some of the first charter members of ASI. Several of them are still active today. This next chart shows the growth of supporting ministries in the south from Madison's time in 1904 all the way up to 1955. Notice how it reflects the growth of church membership in that field. Madison and its affiliate supporting ministries laid a strong foundation for the development of the Southern Union. By 1960, the Southern Union had become the second largest union in the United States. and by 2003 it became the

largest union in the NAD. I'm often asked the question, won't the supporting ministries direct money away from the organized church, hurting them financially? Church treasurers in particular and understandably pose that question. But let's take a look at it. If that was the case, then nowhere would it be more clearly revealed than in the Southern Union, the birthplace of supporting ministries, the place where there is the highest concentration of supporting ministries in the world. And many church

members in this field have been affected in one way or another by the supporting ministries. But if we look at the statistics, we find that nothing could be further from the truth. The 2023 financial reports show a tithe income of $275 million. The highest tithe income of any union in the world and higher than 10 of the 13 world divisions. Is the is the church hurting financially in the southern union due to the extensive presence and impact of supporting ministries? Look at where this union was to where it is today. Has

it been blessed or cursed by all the lay activity and supporting ministries? I think the answer is clear. The truth is ASI members are among the most faithful tithe returners in the church today. Why is that? Well, it's because we believe strongly in the mission of the church and we're willing to sacrifice to advance its work. We feel a biblical responsibility from the Lord to support it and its appointed leaders rather than being a curse. My observation is that not only in the southern union, but in

places around the world with the most supporting ministries, they are the places where the church is the strongest, the healthiest, and most financially secure. God blesses his church when the lay members are active, uniting their efforts with the church leaders. Now wrapping up the historical sketch. In 1979, ASI broadened its vision to include membership categories for Adventist business owners and professionals, each seeking what they can do to share Christ in the marketplace and to give support to the

lay ministries. At that time, the name was changed to Adventist Layman's Services and Industries as it is today, still keeping it ASI. And what a blessing it is. The inspiration and synergy created here at this convention is so important to God's work. The collaboration between ASI members and church leaders from around the world that gather here is just what we need. I want to say I was particularly blessed at this year's general conference session in St. Louis to see in the convention booth area half of the

entities represented there were supporting ministries. It was a visual display of the impact and the importance of these ministries in the global church. And it also showed that the church leadership does embrace and appreciates ASI and the supporting ministries. They welcomed us to have our booze there. Now, I am aware that there are lay ministries that work more independently from the church. They often go about their work without communication with local church leaders. They may say the church is in such a bad

condition that you should send your tithe money to them. They may spend their energy not so much in spreading the gospel, not in setting an example, but in criticizing and trying to straighten out the church. These are not supporting ministries of the church. These are not ASI ministries. Is the church perfect? No. Is it without fault? No. Nobody would say that. But look, neither are the supporting ministries perfect. We are all in need of God's grace. And we need to lift each other in prayer and press together as

the body of Christ. >> We cannot work in a separate independent way and find success. We are one body with many parts. And to finish the work, we must work unitedly. We are told the work of God in this earth can never be finished until the men and women comprising our church membership rally to the work and unite their efforts with those of ministers and church officers. This is the formula for success in God's church. This is the formula for finishing the work. 99.9% of the church today are lay members.

That means there's over 1,000 lay members for every one pastor. We are the soldiers in the army of God. We are the engine behind church expansion and growth. It is time to invest ourselves in God's work to take personal responsibility in advancing his message of salvation. There is no time to waste. It is time to invest our lives, our talents, our resources into God's work. What is God what is God calling you to do for him? Maybe somebody here already active in ministry needed the encouragement to see the importance of

why they're doing of what they're doing in God's work and how it all fits together. Keep your eyes looking upward. Continue forward. Somebody else here may have heard God speaking to their heart. What is it God wants to do with your life? How does God want you to use the talents that he has given to you? I encourage you, follow his direction as you commit your ways to him, he will direct your paths and use you to lead others to Christ. This is no time to get distracted by the things in

this world. No time to try to lead in our own direction. No time for disunityity. It is time to surrender all to God and be led by him. So may God bless you and may he bless his church and the supporting ministries. >> Would you bow your heads with me? Father, we thank you for the blessing to be a part of your church. We're blessed to be called your sons and daughters and to be given a chance to be co-aborers with you. Thank you, Lord, for the history and how you've led in this work.

And we just pray that your blessing would go with us. Bless ASI, bless the supporting ministries, and bless your church. And please, Lord, bless each one as we fellowship, as we connect, as we are inspired in this convention. May we be blessed by your spirit and be energized to finish the work is our prayer in Jesus' name. Amen.

